Goals for soc home lab

1. SIEM on ubuntu vm 
2. Active Directory
2. VLAN network 
4. SSH honeypot 


Writeup...

Everything documented here is in real time, adjustmentments to my model will be prevelent throughout this writeup. 

I aquired an old desktop off of facebook marketplace since I did not want to use own pc. I had also decided I wanted to use proxmox as my hypervisor to support my SOC homelab. Proxmox is a type 1 hypervisor meaning it acts as 
its own operating system. This will save me processing power down the road once I finish downloading my vms and putting necessary hardware on there. (7/15/2024)

I flashed 4 iso images on a usb then uploaded them to proxmox. The first was windows, this would act as my victim vm and also as the host for the active directory server. Next was 
Kali Linux, this act as the attacker vm. Third was ubunutu, this would be my vm that hosts the siem and collects the security logs from the victim vm (windows). Last was pfsense, this will be my firewall
and help me set up the VLAN. (7/17-19/2024)

I attempted to create a VLAN for my first project but decided to abandon it for the time being. I will be coming back to this project at a later point though. The desktop I am running in proxmox only has one
nic card and I do not have a managed switch yet. This obviously complicates the process of making a VLAN since I will have to virtualize everything. I thought it would be a better learning experience if I acquired 
a managed switch and installed another nic card for my lan network. (7/20/2024)

I ordered a 5 port managed switch to assist in the process of building my VLAN. It gets in wednesday (7/24/2024). My kali linux and ubuntu vms also broke, they are stuck on a message saying "booting from 
harddrive". It seems something went wrong with installation process so I will redownload them with a fresh image. (7/22/2024)

Switch arrived on Wednesday (7/24/2024). 

VLAN successfuly set up. Had several troubles such as my router not supporting VLAN tagging, however, my switch was able to negate that. (7/26/2024). 

installed windows ad vm on proxmox. Reinstalled kali linux and got it working now on the vm. Attempting to install security onion siem iso but the internet keeps cutting out lol. (7/28/2024).
